this is majungasaurus at 8 meters high
and weighing about a ton this was the
most formidable predator of its time 70
million years ago this giant was at the
top of the food chain but it lived
during a time when the climate was a lot
warmer than today and much of the earth
was desert
with prey scarce and energy levels often
learn majungasaurus wouldn't think twice
about defending its territory
with lethal force
and if you made the mistake of looking
at his lunch
these bloody battles were inevitable to
survive in this harsh environment and
it's thought this desperate behavior
eventually led to a gruesome secret
skill in 2003 scientists made a
startling discovery which changed
literally everything they found
majungasaurus ribs with telltale gouge
marks running down the length of them
they've been fed on by a big predatory
dinosaur for years the suggestion was
that roaming out on the wastelands was
something even bigger than majungasaurus
which had killed and eaten it but then
they studied the bite radius and they
discovered the true culprits
it was another majungasaurus by lining
up the bite marks on this rib with other
majungasaurus teeth scientists could
prove that this had been fed on by its
own kind this was the first hard
evidence of dinosaur cannibalism
[Music]
cannabis deliberately killing your own
species for food is a desperate and
dangerous survival strategy
majungasaurus is one of a very few
dinosaurs that were thought to have
preyed on their own kind seriously he's
eating another majungasaurus that's
that's oh I don't I don't feel so good
so we'll get me a bucket in the
cutthroat world of the dinosaurs
sometimes you had to be extreme to
survive even so this was a dastardly
cannibal that sometimes had its family
over for dinner